README.md, before:

Tinman
======

Tinman is an take what you need package designed to speed development of
Tornado applications.  It includes an application wrapper and a toolbox of
decorators and utilities.

Features
--------

- RequestHandler output caching
- Network address whitelisting decorator
- Method/Function debug logging decorator
- A full featured application wrapper that provides a convenient way to develop
  and run Tornado applications.

Requirements
------------

- ipaddr
- pyyaml

Application Runner
------------------

The tinman application runner works off a YAML configuration file format and
provides a convient interface for running tornado applications interactively
or as a daemon.

    Command Line Syntax:

        tinman -c configuration.yaml [-f]

    Command Line Options"



    Configuration File Syntax:

        %YAML 1.2
        ---
        Application:
            debug: True
            xsrf_cookies: False

        HTTPServer:
            no_keep_alive: False
            ports: [8000,8001]
            xheaders: True

        Logging:
            #filename: log.txt
            format: "%(module)-10s# %(lineno)-5d %(levelname) -10s %(asctime)s  %(message)s"
            # Valid values: debug, info, warning, error, critical
            level: debug
            handler: syslog
            syslog:
                address: /dev/log
                facility: LOG_LOCAL6

Decorators
----------

- tinman.whitelisted: Vaidates the requesting IP address against a list of ip
  address blocks specified in Application.settings

  Example:

        # Define the whitelist as part of your application settings
        settings['whitelist'] = ['10.0.0.0/8',
                                 '192.168.1.0/24',
                                 '1.2.3.4/32']

        application = Application(routes, **settings)

        # Specify the decorator in each method of your RequestHandler class
        # where you'd like to enforce the whitelist
        class MyClass(tornado.web.RequestHandler):

          @tinman.whitelisted
          def get(self):
              self.write("IP was whitelisted")

- tinman.memoize: A local in-memory cache decorator. RequestHandler class
  method calls are cached by name and arguments. Note that this monkey-patches
  the RequestHandler class on execution and will cache the total output created
  including all of the template rendering if there is anything. Local cache
  can be flushed with "tinman.cache.flush()"

  Example:

        class MyClass(tornado.web.RequestHandler):

           @tinman.memoize
           def get(self, content_id):
               self.write("Hello, World")

 - tinman.log_method_call: Send a logging.debug message with the class, method
   and arguments called.

   Example:

        class MyClass(tornado.web.RequestHandler):

            @tinman.log_method_call
            def get(self, content_id):
               self.write("Hello, World")


Modules
-------

- utils: A collection of helpful functions for starting, daemonizing and
  stopping a Tornado application.

  Methods:

  - daemonize(pidfile=None, user=None, group=None)

    Daemonize the application specifying the PID in the pidfile if specified,
    setting the application to run as the user and group if specified.

  - setup_logging(config, debug=False)

    Setup the logging module with the parameters specified in the config
    dictionary. If debug is specified as True, output will be to stdout
    using the Tornado colored output if available and all other logging methods
    such as file or syslog will be disabled.

    config dictionary format:

    * directory:   Optional log file output directory
    * filename:    Optional filename, not needed for syslog
    * format:      Format for non-debug mode
    * level:       One of debug, error, warning, info
    * handler:     Optional handler
    * syslog:      If handler == syslog, parameters for syslog
      * address:   Syslog address
      * facility:  Syslog facility

  - shutdown()

    Will call the stop() method of all child objects added to the
    tinman.utils.children list. This is useful for multi-processing apps to
    make sure that all children shutdown when a signal is called on the parent

  - def setup_signals()

    Registers the shutdown function on SIGTERM and registers a rehash handler
    on SIGHUP. To specify the rehash handler, assign a callback to
    tinman.utils.rehash_handler.

Commit message:

Add the command line options to the README and update the optparse desc.

README.md, after:

Tinman
======

Tinman is an take what you need package designed to speed development of
Tornado applications.  It includes an application wrapper and a toolbox of
decorators and utilities.

Features
--------

- RequestHandler output caching
- Network address whitelisting decorator
- Method/Function debug logging decorator
- A full featured application wrapper that provides a convenient way to develop
  and run Tornado applications.

Requirements
------------

- ipaddr
- pyyaml

Application Runner
------------------

The tinman application runner works off a YAML configuration file format and
provides a convient interface for running tornado applications interactively
or as a daemon.

    Command Line Syntax:

        Usage: tinman -c <configfile> [options]

        Tornado application wrapper

        Options:
          --version             show program's version number and exit
          -h, --help            show this help message and exit
          -c CONFIG, --config=CONFIG
                                Specify the configuration file for use
          -f, --foreground      Run interactively in console

    Configuration File Syntax:

        %YAML 1.2
        ---
        Application:
            debug: True
            xsrf_cookies: False

        HTTPServer:
            no_keep_alive: False
            ports: [8000,8001]
            xheaders: True

        Logging:
            #filename: log.txt
            format: "%(module)-10s# %(lineno)-5d %(levelname) -10s %(asctime)s  %(message)s"
            # Valid values: debug, info, warning, error, critical
            level: debug
            handler: syslog
            syslog:
                address: /dev/log
                facility: LOG_LOCAL6

Decorators
----------

- tinman.whitelisted: Vaidates the requesting IP address against a list of ip
  address blocks specified in Application.settings

  Example:

        # Define the whitelist as part of your application settings
        settings['whitelist'] = ['10.0.0.0/8',
                                 '192.168.1.0/24',
                                 '1.2.3.4/32']

        application = Application(routes, **settings)

        # Specify the decorator in each method of your RequestHandler class
        # where you'd like to enforce the whitelist
        class MyClass(tornado.web.RequestHandler):

          @tinman.whitelisted
          def get(self):
              self.write("IP was whitelisted")

- tinman.memoize: A local in-memory cache decorator. RequestHandler class
  method calls are cached by name and arguments. Note that this monkey-patches
  the RequestHandler class on execution and will cache the total output created
  including all of the template rendering if there is anything. Local cache
  can be flushed with "tinman.cache.flush()"

  Example:

        class MyClass(tornado.web.RequestHandler):

           @tinman.memoize
           def get(self, content_id):
               self.write("Hello, World")

 - tinman.log_method_call: Send a logging.debug message with the class, method
   and arguments called.

   Example:

        class MyClass(tornado.web.RequestHandler):

            @tinman.log_method_call
            def get(self, content_id):
               self.write("Hello, World")


Modules
-------

- utils: A collection of helpful functions for starting, daemonizing and
  stopping a Tornado application.

  Methods:

  - daemonize(pidfile=None, user=None, group=None)

    Daemonize the application specifying the PID in the pidfile if specified,
    setting the application to run as the user and group if specified.

  - setup_logging(config, debug=False)

    Setup the logging module with the parameters specified in the config
    dictionary. If debug is specified as True, output will be to stdout
    using the Tornado colored output if available and all other logging methods
    such as file or syslog will be disabled.

    config dictionary format:

    * directory:   Optional log file output directory
    * filename:    Optional filename, not needed for syslog
    * format:      Format for non-debug mode
    * level:       One of debug, error, warning, info
    * handler:     Optional handler
    * syslog:      If handler == syslog, parameters for syslog
      * address:   Syslog address
      * facility:  Syslog facility

  - shutdown()

    Will call the stop() method of all child objects added to the
    tinman.utils.children list. This is useful for multi-processing apps to
    make sure that all children shutdown when a signal is called on the parent

  - def setup_signals()

    Registers the shutdown function on SIGTERM and registers a rehash handler
    on SIGHUP. To specify the rehash handler, assign a callback to
    tinman.utils.rehash_handler.
